---
title: Cricket
tags:
  - group-small
  - situation-field
  - situation-playground
  - style-drinking
  - style-active
  - winner-team

oneliner: Throw a frisbee at bottles
players: 4
tools:
  - Four empty beer bottles
  - Frisbee
  - Cup
  - Beer
---
# Setup

Set up two pairs of two beer **bottles**: each pair is a frisbee-width apart,
and the pairs are 10 meters apart, all four forming a really long rectangle.
Some people _demand_ you cover your bottles in shiny tape. In the center of the
rectangle place the cup.

The four people split into two teams of two. Pick a set of bottles to defend.

Please shake hands to initiate cordial rivalry. Play rock-paper-scissors to
decide who goes first.

# Gameplay

Each round starts with the center cup customarily full of about an inch full of
beer. All players have to stand behind their bottles until the offense
_releases_ the disk, which starts the round. Players can begin running upon
release, they do not need to wait for a bottle to be hit.

## Offensive Play

The offending team has two roles: **thrower** and **macker**.

The thrower tries to knock over the defense's bottles, throwing the disk from
behind their bottles. If one is knocked over, they can score points on a return
throw; they run to get the disk, then try to knock over (only) their own bottles
in a return throw from behind the opponent's bottles. If no bottles are knocked
over on the initial throw, the round ends immediately. One point is awarded per
bottle knocked over by the thrower.

The macker helps the return throw by macking it into the their own bottles and
can pass the disk back to the thrower for more retries until the defense ends
the round. After the initial hit on the defense's bottles, all attempts are only
made on the offense's own bottles for additional points.

## Defensive Play

The defending team has two roles: **drinker** and **caller**.

The drinker is the primary defensive player. Their main goal is to prevent
bottles from being hit on the return throw. Their secondary goal is to end the
round by touching the disk (in the air or on the ground, but not while it is in
the offense's hand). The drinker is not allowed to leave the midline or turn
around and face the return throw until they have drank the beer in the center
cup. They _are_ allowed to wave their hands and move side-to-side while drinking
to attempt to hit the disk during the return throw. Once the beer is done, they
can move freely. The drinker should refill the beer at the end of the round.

The caller tells the drinker:

1. If the initial throw hit. The drinker is allowed to start running towards the
   cup as soon as the offensive thrower releases the disk, so they will be in front
   of their bottles and unable to see if the initial throw hit.

2. Which direction the return throw is coming from while they are still drinking
   and their back is turned so they can attempt to play defense before finishing
   the beer.

## Role Rotation

After each round, teams alternate playing offense and defense. Players swap
roles on offense after every throw. Players swap roles on defense only after the
round ends due to the disk being touched by the defense.

## Special Events

If at any point any player knocks over the center cup in any way, they have to
drink a full beer and refill the cup.

If the drinker's body touches the disk before the initial throw comes to rest,
that is a foul and the thrower gets another throw if they thought the disk might
hit a bottle.

A **tweener** is when the initial throw goes between both bottles without
knocking either over. The thrower gets another throw if that happens. Three
tweeners in a row reset the score to zeros.

# Endgame

First team to 21 points wins. Win by two. There is a rebuttal. If the rebuttal
brings the score back within a two point differential, normal gameplay resumes.

After the game, please shake hands to terminate cordial rivalry.

## Rebuttal

Once one team scores 21 points, the losing team continues to play back-to-back
offensive rounds until a round does not score a point.

The losing team will have just played defense before their rebuttal starts. They
customarily pour a larger cup of beer for the winning team to have to consume as
part of defense.

# Variations

- Veteran's Rules - if the disk is not caught in the air on the retry throw, the
  round is over.
