---
title: Ninja
tags: group-small group-medium style-spirit no-tools

oneliner: Hit people in the hands to get them out
players: 4+
---
### Start
Circle up with each person putting both hands in the middle. The game begins with everyone jumping back and assuming a ninja pose!

### Attack Order
Someone is selected to attack first. Only one person attacks at a time and the attack moves around the circle. The order of attack is fixed from the start clockwise around the circle. _Even if you move around later, you still attack in the starting order._ Everyone must be frozen unless they are attacking or currently being attacked. The next attacker is allowed to strike as soon as the previous one has completed their ninja move, so it can rotate very quickly! The person who is attacking circles around until only one person remains.

### Attacking
The goal is to hit other people’s hands with ninja chops. If you are hit in the hand by someone else’s hand, you’re out; step out of the circle. An attack must be a single swift ninja move: a single arc of an arm or jump; no "out and back." When you are attacking, you are allowed to move by jumping.

### Defending
If you are being attacked, you are allowed to defend by moving your hands out of the way once the attacker has started their movement; you are not allowed to move your feet. If you move your feet or fall over, you’re out. If you move or flinch before the attacker has actually attacked, you must return to your original frozen position.

### Variations
* Each hand is its own "life" and if one gets hit, you just hold it behind your back until your other hand is hit.
* If you attack out of turn or flinch when you’re not being attacked, you are punished right then by having to assume the "bunny position:" wrists are held to chest and your elbows are at your side. When attacked, you can only defend by moving your whole torso+hands out of the way. If your wrists leave your chest, you’re out. When it’s your turn to attack next, your only move can be to "unbunny" which is assume a normal ninja pose without attacking someone.
